hello my name is Colin Crump I'm the
owner of Lobby bedding where we've been
providing the support you need since
1976 I'm when discussing how to buy a
mattress purchasing a mattress can be a
great investment for you to have a great
night's sleep however the whole process
can be confusing and daunting there are
major considerations you should be
thinking about when purchasing images
their comfort support and materials when
we refer to comfort we're talking about
the top layer of a mattress this is what
helps get you to sleep and reduces
pressure points if the comfort layer is
too soft or plushy it may affect the
support you get well if it's too firm on
a surface you might get pressure points
at your hips and your shoulders the next
thing to consider is the support in your
mattress
the support is deeper down below the
comfort layer support is what stops you
from waking up with a sore back in the
morning or in the middle of the night
when looking for the right support you
want to ensure that your hips are
supported at the right height and not
feel like you're in a hammock you want
to ensure that your spine is relatively
aligned finding the right balance
between comfort on the surface and
support underneath is what you're trying
to accomplish
so what firmness of mattress is right
for you it really depends on your
personal preference and your body now
we're going to talk about the materials
in the mattress why do the materials
that matches matter different materials
have different characteristics both of
feel and longevity first we'll talk
about support but now pocket coil inner
Springs or foam and latex cores these
affect your deeper down support you want
to ensure they provide your body with
the right balance when purchasing a
mattress I would be most concerned with
the comfort layers not the support
layers this is where most manufacturers
save money not using high enough quality
materials comfort layers tend to be the
first to fail and people prematurely
weather is deep audience or lack of
support for the comfort layer cotton is
an excellent natural fiber and it's very
breathable and lasts a long time very
few companies use cotton due to labor
costs latex is reactive and has a
rubbery feel it is cooler than regular
foam and outlast average foam
memory foam and memory gel foams are
slower moving less reactive foams the
good for pressure point relief however
they have less support and can feel warm
Paul your soy foams come in a variety of
densities they bounce back and are more
breathable than memory foam ensure it is
1.5 pound or more in density polyester
is quite often in the quilting layer and
adds some of the softness and texture to
the outer surface here are some quick
tips and questions find a store and
salesperson that you can trust and
answer your questions when talking to
the salesperson about the materials in
the mattress ask a few simple questions
roll the regular memory foam ask about
the density this is how heavy the foam
is not the firmness for everyday use I
believe memory foam should be about 4 to
5 pounds
well regular foam should be 1.5 pounds
or greater the next question asked is
where those materials are located and
how thick they are the reason it is good
to ask these questions is to know what
your bar quite often mattresses will
state they have latex and memory foam in
them and they do however it may be a
half an inch in the middle or on the
ends which gives you no greater comfort
or support
when trying a mattress pushing down with
your hands or just sitting gently won't
give you a good feel you should lie down
close your eyes and relax for five 10 or
even 20 minutes another question to
consider is whether the mattress slips
the majority do not anymore
mostly to lower costs however if your
mattress flips you're essentially
getting twice the mattress if you ask
the right questions you should be able
to get a great bed for a reasonable
price don't just look at the outside of
the mattress it's what's inside that
counts if you need any assistance or
have any questions please visit our shop
and we'll provide the support you need
you